#  Drasi

Drasi is a data processing system that simplifies detecting critical events within complex infrastructures and taking immediate action. Drasi evaluates change data for relevance and produces always-accurate result sets that can be used to immediately trigger responses. As a single solution that addresses the challenge of detecting changes and reacting to them, Drasi eliminates complexity and and helps you proactively manage changes in dynamic systems.

## Overview
Drasi simplifies the automation of intelligent reactions in dynamic systems, delivering real-time actionable insights without the overhead of traditional data processing methods. It tracks system changes by watching for events in logs and change feeds, without copying data to a central data lake or repeatedly querying data sources. You use database queries to define which changes to track and express logical conditions to evaluate change data.  Drasi then determines if any changes trigger updates to the result sets of those queries. If they do, it executes context-aware reactions based on your business needs.

With full containerization and highly extendable points of integration, Drasi can quickly be seamlessly integrated into existing systems without disruption.

### Platform and Functionality Highlights
Drasi's rich query capabilities include:

•	Expansive coverage of the standard Cypher Query language and OpenCypher.

•	Integrating data from multiple sources in a single query to accurately interpret events.

•	Access to historical values enabling you to compare values over time and to aggregate series of values from time ranges.

•	Continuous Queries that react to the **absence** of change.

Some of its platform highlights are:

•	Easy integration with popular data repositories and platforms.

•	Full containerization; runs on a Kubernetes cluster. This cluster can be minimal for initial workloads, growing as needed.

•	Can be run on-premises or in the cloud.

•	Management via a CLI or API as well as integration with the Open Telemetry observability framework.

•	Visual Studio Code and browser-based tools to help developers write and test  Continuous Queries.

## Getting Started
Follow the [Getting Started tutorial](https://drasi.io/getting-started/) and try out Drasi.

With Drasi, detecting and reacting to change is a simple three-step process:
1. Configure a Source representing the data source whose changes you want to observe.
2. Configure a Continuous Query to define all the data to observe, conditions to assess changes, and the structure of the output.
3. Configure a Reaction to take the output generated by one or more Continuous Queries and do something with it.

**Place holder for quickStart tutorial video**

Head over to our [documentation site](https://drasi.io/) and visit the [Tutorial](https://drasi.io/tutorials/) and [How To](https://drasi.io/how-to-guides/) guides to learn more about Drasi.

## Release Status
This is an early release of Drasi for the community learn about the platform and experiment with in Proofs Of Concept. Please share your thoughts on Drasi and create GitHub issues for any bugs you may find or if you have feature requests that will help improve Drasi.

This repo contains everything you require to build a Drasi-based solution with Sources, Reactions, and tooling for development and testing.

## Community
We hope you will join us and contribute to Drasi! Some of the ways to get started with contributing are participating in Issue discussions or joining us on our on our [Discord server](https://aka.ms/drasidiscord). Check out our [Community repo](https://github.com/drasi-project/community) for more information on the community, and guidance on contributing and development. 

## Contributing To Drasi

Please see the [Contribution guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for information on contributing to Drasi.

## Security
Please refer to our guide on [reporting security vulnerabilities](https://github.com/drasi-project/drasi-platform/blob/main/SECURITY.md#reporting-security-issues)

## Code of Conduct
Please refer to Drasi's [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/drasi-project/community/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

## License
This project is licensed under the Apache 2.0 license. Please see the [LICENSE](https://github.com/drasi-project/community/blob/main/LICENSE) file.

## Contact the Drasi Authors
Please join us on Discord to contact us and we will get back to you as soon as possible. You can also email us at info@drasi.io.
